README.md, before:

# ECS Query CLI

The `ecsq` CLI tool provides a set of simple commands to query ECS for information. It presents the
data in compact, tabular format in most cases, with links to the AWS console where useful.

Other than querying, it has a command to fetch and dump environment variables in shell and Docker
compatible formats for local development.

## Installation

`ecsq` is distributed via Go. Make sure you have Go installed, and run

```
go get -u github.com/mightyguava/ecsq
```

## Upgrading

`ecsq` does not yet follow semantic versioning. Upgrading uses the same command as installing
```
go get -u github.com/mightyguava/ecsq
```

## Configuration and credentials

`ecsq` uses the `~/.aws/credentials` and `~/.aws/config` for credentials and configuration, respectively.

You can also use the standard AWS CLI environment variables for overriding them. The common environment variables are

- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
- `AWS_ACCESS_SECRET_KEY`
- `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`

More parameters can be found in [Configuring the AWS CLI](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html).

## Overview

The `ecsq` tool can query AWS ECS by cluster, service, or task. The `--help` option shows the
commands.

```
> ecsq
usage: ecsq [<flags>] <command> [<args> ...]

A friendly ECS CLI

Flags:
  --help  Show context-sensitive help (also try --help-long and --help-man).

Commands:
  help [<command>...]
    Show help.

  clusters
    List existing clusters

  services [<flags>] <cluster>
    List services within the cluster

  service [<flags>] <cluster> <service>
    Show details of a service

  tasks <cluster> <service>
    List tasks belong to a service

  task <cluster> <task>
    Describe the given task

  container-env [<flags>] <cluster> <service>
    List environment variables for the task's container
```

## List clusters

`ecsq clusters` lists the ECS clusters in our AWS account.

```
> ecsq clusters
+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+---------------+---------------+
|      CLUSTER NAME      | CONTAINER INSTANCES | ACTIVE SERVICES | RUNNING TASKS | PENDING TASKS |
+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+---------------+---------------+
| default                |                   0 |               0 |             0 |             0 |
| ecs-prod               |                   3 |               3 |             3 |             0 |
| ecs-staging            |                   3 |               6 |             6 |             0 |
+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+---------------+---------------+
```

## List services

`ecsq services` lists the services within a cluster. For large clusters. this command can take a
while.

```
> ecsq services ecs-prod
Found 3 services
+------------------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+
|             SERVICE NAME     | STATUS | DESIRED | RUNNING | PENDING |
+------------------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+
| service-applepicker-ecs-prod | ACTIVE |       6 |       6 |       0 |
| service-helloworld-ecs-prod  | ACTIVE |      89 |      89 |       0 |
| service-my-blog-ecs-prod     | ACTIVE |       5 |       5 |       0 |
+------------------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+
```

## Describe service

`ecsq service` shows the details of a service, and provides useful links to the dashboard.

```
> ecsq service ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod
Service
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                 | service-applepicker-ecs-prod                                                                                                      |
| Status               | ACTIVE                                                                                                                            |
| Service ARN          | arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:4817267453:service/service-applepicker-ecs-prod                                                             |
| Task Definition      | arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:4817267453:task-definition/task-applepicker-ecs-prod:38                                                     |
| Desired Count        | 1                                                                                                                                 |
| Running Count        | 1                                                                                                                                 |
| Pending Count        | 0                                                                                                                                 |
| Service Link         | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/clusters/ecs-prod/services/service-applepicker-ecs-prod/tasks |
| Task Definition Link | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/taskDefinitions/task-applepicker-ecs-prod/                    |
| LB Container Name    | ngfe                                                                                                                              |
| LB Container Port    | 8000                                                                                                                              |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
Containers
+-------------+-----+--------+---------+
|    NAME     | CPU | MEMORY | COMMAND |
+-------------+-----+--------+---------+
| applepicker |   0 |    256 |         |
| ngfe        |   0 |    256 |         |
+-------------+-----+--------+---------+
```

## List service events

`ecsq service --events` lists events for that service in addition to the service details.

```
> ecsq service ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod
...
2017-08-11T18:08:05Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has reached a steady state.
2017-08-15T12:12:08Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has reached a steady state.
2017-08-15T18:12:21Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has reached a steady state.
2017-08-15T19:00:53Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has stopped 2 running tasks: (task 02262781-54d0-4d1a-b76f-77693b0547f1) (task 56dce574-c297-41ef-8ec8-7b00477c5bfa).
2017-08-15T19:01:04Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has reached a steady state.
```

## List tasks

`ecsq tasks` lists the tasks belonging to the service, by ARN. It's not useful by itself, but the
ARNs can be given to the `ecsq task` command to get task details:

```
> ecsq tasks ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod

Running Tasks:
	arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:4817267453:task/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c

Stopped Tasks:

Use the "task" command to get details of a task. For example:
	ecsq task ecs-prod arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:4817267453:task/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c
```

## Describe task

`ecsq task` shows the details of a given task, by ARN, and provides useful links to the dashboard.

```
> ecsq task ecs-prod arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:192431242:task/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c
Details:
+-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Task ID                 | bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c                                                                                                          |
| Task ARN                | arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:192431242:task/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c                                                                     |
| Task Definition         | task-applepicker-ecs-prod                                                                                                                     |
| Container Instance      | 44019f70-aa88-48e3-babf-4614e10afe08                                                                                                          |
| EC2 Instance            | i-072932614cc14ccf9                                                                                                                           |
| Task Link               | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/clusters/ecs-prod/tasks/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c              |
| Task Definition Link    | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/taskDefinitions/task-applepicker-ecs-prod/                                |
| Container Instance Link | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/clusters/ecs-prod/containerInstances/44019f70-aa88-48e3-babf-4614e10afe08 |
| EC2 Instance Link       | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-west-2#Instances:instanceId=i-072932614cc14ccf9                                |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
Containers:
+-------------+--------------------------+--------------------+
| applepicker | Status                   | RUNNING            |
|             | Network - Container Port | 3000               |
|             | Network - External Link  | 10.10.121.212:3030 |
| ngfe        | Status                   | RUNNING            |
|             | Network - Container Port | 8000               |
|             | Network - External Link  | 10.10.121.212:8080 |
|             | Network - Container Port | 8001               |
|             | Network - External Link  | 10.10.121.212:8081 |
+-------------+--------------------------+--------------------+
```

## Show container environment variables

`ecsq container-env` fetches and dumps environment variables for a service's container definition. It
can often be useful to run a container locally with the same configuration as on ECS.

The command supports 3 formats, set with the `--format` flag

- `table` this is the default format, it renders the environment variales as a table
- `shell` renders the environment variables to prefix the command with in `bash` or `zsh`, or pass
into the `env` function
- `export` renders the environment variables as `export` statements to `bash` or `zsh`
- `docker` renders the environment variables as `-e` flags to the `docker` command

```
> ecsq container-env ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod --container applepicker
+-------------------+---------+
|       NAME        |  VALUE  |
+-------------------+---------+
| NODE_ENV          | prod    |
| PORT              | 3000    |
| ORCHARD_API_KEY   | xxxxxxx |
| ORCHARD_API_TOKEN | xxxxxxx |
+------------------+----------+

> ecsq container-env ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod --format=shell --container applepicker
NODE_ENV="prod" PORT="3000" ORCHARD_API_KEY="xxxxxxxx" ORCHARD_API_TOKEN="xxxxxxxx"

> ecsq container-env ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod --format=docker --container applepicker
-eNODE_ENV="prod" -ePORT="3000" -eORCHARD_API_KEY="xxxxxxxx" -eORCHARD_API_TOKEN="xxxxxxxx"

> ecsq container-env ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod --format=export --container applepicker
export NODE_ENV="prod"
export PORT="3000"
export ORCHARD_API_KEY="xxxxxxx"
export ORCHARD_API_TOKEN="xxxxxxx"
```

## Environment Variables

`ECSQ_SERVICE_NAME_EXPANSION` can be used to specify a Golang template string to expand the provided
service name to. This is kind of an obscure option, to allow writing shorter service names if your
service names follow a predefined format. For example, if your services names follow the format
`service-{{.Name}}-{{.Cluster}}`, then the service `applepicker` on cluster `ecs-prod` will be
expanded to `service-applepicker-ecs-prod` when querying ECS.

Commit message:

Add --filter flag to service command

README.md, after:

# ECS Query CLI

The `ecsq` CLI tool provides a set of simple commands to query ECS for information. It presents the
data in compact, tabular format in most cases, with links to the AWS console where useful.

Other than querying, it has a command to fetch and dump environment variables in shell and Docker
compatible formats for local development.

## Installation

`ecsq` is distributed via Go. Make sure you have Go installed, and run

```
go get -u github.com/mightyguava/ecsq
```

## Upgrading

`ecsq` does not yet follow semantic versioning. Upgrading uses the same command as installing
```
go get -u github.com/mightyguava/ecsq
```

## Configuration and credentials

`ecsq` uses the `~/.aws/credentials` and `~/.aws/config` for credentials and configuration, respectively.

You can also use the standard AWS CLI environment variables for overriding them. The common environment variables are

- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
- `AWS_ACCESS_SECRET_KEY`
- `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`

More parameters can be found in [Configuring the AWS CLI](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html).

## Overview

The `ecsq` tool can query AWS ECS by cluster, service, or task. The `--help` option shows the
commands.

```
> ecsq
usage: ecsq [<flags>] <command> [<args> ...]

A friendly ECS CLI

Flags:
  --help  Show context-sensitive help (also try --help-long and --help-man).
  --profile=PROFILE  AWS profile to use. Overrides the ~/.aws/config and AWS_DEFAULT_PROFILE

Commands:
  help [<command>...]
    Show help.

  clusters
    List existing clusters

  services [<flags>] <cluster>
    List services within the cluster

  service [<flags>] <cluster> <service>
    Show details of a service

  tasks <cluster> <service>
    List tasks belong to a service

  task <cluster> <task>
    Describe the given task

  container-env [<flags>] <cluster> <service>
    List environment variables for the task's container
```

## List clusters

`ecsq clusters` lists the ECS clusters in our AWS account.

```
> ecsq clusters
+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+---------------+---------------+
|      CLUSTER NAME      | CONTAINER INSTANCES | ACTIVE SERVICES | RUNNING TASKS | PENDING TASKS |
+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+---------------+---------------+
| default                |                   0 |               0 |             0 |             0 |
| ecs-prod               |                   3 |               3 |             3 |             0 |
| ecs-staging            |                   3 |               6 |             6 |             0 |
+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+---------------+---------------+
```

## List services

`ecsq services` lists the services within a cluster. For large clusters. this command can take a
while. Results can be filtered using the `--filter` flag.

```
> ecsq services ecs-prod
Found 3 services
+------------------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+
|             SERVICE NAME     | STATUS | DESIRED | RUNNING | PENDING |
+------------------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+
| service-applepicker-ecs-prod | ACTIVE |       6 |       6 |       0 |
| service-helloworld-ecs-prod  | ACTIVE |      89 |      89 |       0 |
| service-my-blog-ecs-prod     | ACTIVE |       5 |       5 |       0 |
+------------------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+
```

## Describe service

`ecsq service` shows the details of a service, and provides useful links to the dashboard.

```
> ecsq service ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod
Service
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                 | service-applepicker-ecs-prod                                                                                                      |
| Status               | ACTIVE                                                                                                                            |
| Service ARN          | arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:4817267453:service/service-applepicker-ecs-prod                                                             |
| Task Definition      | arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:4817267453:task-definition/task-applepicker-ecs-prod:38                                                     |
| Desired Count        | 1                                                                                                                                 |
| Running Count        | 1                                                                                                                                 |
| Pending Count        | 0                                                                                                                                 |
| Service Link         | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/clusters/ecs-prod/services/service-applepicker-ecs-prod/tasks |
| Task Definition Link | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/taskDefinitions/task-applepicker-ecs-prod/                    |
| LB Container Name    | ngfe                                                                                                                              |
| LB Container Port    | 8000                                                                                                                              |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
Containers
+-------------+-----+--------+---------+
|    NAME     | CPU | MEMORY | COMMAND |
+-------------+-----+--------+---------+
| applepicker |   0 |    256 |         |
| ngfe        |   0 |    256 |         |
+-------------+-----+--------+---------+
```

## List service events

`ecsq service --events` lists events for that service in addition to the service details.

```
> ecsq service ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod
...
2017-08-11T18:08:05Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has reached a steady state.
2017-08-15T12:12:08Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has reached a steady state.
2017-08-15T18:12:21Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has reached a steady state.
2017-08-15T19:00:53Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has stopped 2 running tasks: (task 02262781-54d0-4d1a-b76f-77693b0547f1) (task 56dce574-c297-41ef-8ec8-7b00477c5bfa).
2017-08-15T19:01:04Z: (service service-warehouse-sqs-event-worker-ecs-staging) has reached a steady state.
```

## List tasks

`ecsq tasks` lists the tasks belonging to the service, by ARN. It's not useful by itself, but the
ARNs can be given to the `ecsq task` command to get task details:

```
> ecsq tasks ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod

Running Tasks:
	arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:4817267453:task/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c

Stopped Tasks:

Use the "task" command to get details of a task. For example:
	ecsq task ecs-prod arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:4817267453:task/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c
```

## Describe task

`ecsq task` shows the details of a given task, by ARN, and provides useful links to the dashboard.

```
> ecsq task ecs-prod arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:192431242:task/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c
Details:
+-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Task ID                 | bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c                                                                                                          |
| Task ARN                | arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:192431242:task/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c                                                                     |
| Task Definition         | task-applepicker-ecs-prod                                                                                                                     |
| Container Instance      | 44019f70-aa88-48e3-babf-4614e10afe08                                                                                                          |
| EC2 Instance            | i-072932614cc14ccf9                                                                                                                           |
| Task Link               | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/clusters/ecs-prod/tasks/bfbf861b-7f10-4dfb-b344-32169dc3e55c              |
| Task Definition Link    | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/taskDefinitions/task-applepicker-ecs-prod/                                |
| Container Instance Link | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home?region=us-west-2#/clusters/ecs-prod/containerInstances/44019f70-aa88-48e3-babf-4614e10afe08 |
| EC2 Instance Link       | https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-west-2#Instances:instanceId=i-072932614cc14ccf9                                |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
Containers:
+-------------+--------------------------+--------------------+
| applepicker | Status                   | RUNNING            |
|             | Network - Container Port | 3000               |
|             | Network - External Link  | 10.10.121.212:3030 |
| ngfe        | Status                   | RUNNING            |
|             | Network - Container Port | 8000               |
|             | Network - External Link  | 10.10.121.212:8080 |
|             | Network - Container Port | 8001               |
|             | Network - External Link  | 10.10.121.212:8081 |
+-------------+--------------------------+--------------------+
```

## Show container environment variables

`ecsq container-env` fetches and dumps environment variables for a service's container definition. It
can often be useful to run a container locally with the same configuration as on ECS.

The command supports 3 formats, set with the `--format` flag

- `table` this is the default format, it renders the environment variales as a table
- `shell` renders the environment variables to prefix the command with in `bash` or `zsh`, or pass
into the `env` function
- `export` renders the environment variables as `export` statements to `bash` or `zsh`
- `docker` renders the environment variables as `-e` flags to the `docker` command

```
> ecsq container-env ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod --container applepicker
+-------------------+---------+
|       NAME        |  VALUE  |
+-------------------+---------+
| NODE_ENV          | prod    |
| PORT              | 3000    |
| ORCHARD_API_KEY   | xxxxxxx |
| ORCHARD_API_TOKEN | xxxxxxx |
+------------------+----------+

> ecsq container-env ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod --format=shell --container applepicker
NODE_ENV="prod" PORT="3000" ORCHARD_API_KEY="xxxxxxxx" ORCHARD_API_TOKEN="xxxxxxxx"

> ecsq container-env ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod --format=docker --container applepicker
-eNODE_ENV="prod" -ePORT="3000" -eORCHARD_API_KEY="xxxxxxxx" -eORCHARD_API_TOKEN="xxxxxxxx"

> ecsq container-env ecs-prod service-applepicker-ecs-prod --format=export --container applepicker
export NODE_ENV="prod"
export PORT="3000"
export ORCHARD_API_KEY="xxxxxxx"
export ORCHARD_API_TOKEN="xxxxxxx"
```

## Environment Variables

`ECSQ_SERVICE_NAME_EXPANSION` can be used to specify a Golang template string to expand the provided
service name to. This is kind of an obscure option, to allow writing shorter service names if your
service names follow a predefined format. For example, if your services names follow the format
`service-{{.Name}}-{{.Cluster}}`, then the service `applepicker` on cluster `ecs-prod` will be
expanded to `service-applepicker-ecs-prod` when querying ECS.
